We know that we wanna cancel and
renew our credit cards every one or two years
so we can stop small charges that
we didn't make from recurring.
Okay and just watch out for all fees
and all statements and call the
credit card company and contest, right?
Argue with them if you didn't make
a payment or if they overcharged you.
And if you see an annual charge
from your credit card company you did not realize
that you were gonna have to be paying
that annual charge call and complain, okay?
There's so many consumer advocacy groups
out there that will protect you, right?
And just complain.
Like people get ahead in the world
are the ones that are complaining unfortunately.
Ask and you'll receive.
It is what it is.
And I promise you every year
you're gonna find a couple of charges
that are wrong on your credit card.
And we talked about making sure you have
an RFID blocker but you know what?
People are becoming so lazy when it comes
to checking your ID everywhere you go except for
you know at the airport for obvious reasons.
The other day, um...
(laughs)
The other day my eldest son Andrew and I
went to the doctor and the receptionist asked for my ID
and I wanna make my son Andrew laugh, poor guy.
He's fine. He's fine.
And so what I did was I gave...
(laughs)
If you wanna give me a one star rating
after I show you this I completely
understand and I agree with you.
So I gave the doctor,
the receptionist at the doctor's office this ID instead.
Some of you are gonna laugh at this.
Some are you gonna be like WTF.
Why the face?
But this is the ID for McLovin, okay?
And he's from Hawaii.
He has one name and...
If you haven't seen the movie Superbad
please watch it because you'll get this reference.
It's kinda funny; his fake ID.
Okay so I gave the receptionist this ID
instead of mine and it said McLovin.
And the receptionist actually looked at it and said okay.
She didn't even read it, right?
I then used it again a few times later that day
when I had to pay for stuff with Andrew
and we both had a good laugh about it, okay?
And, uh...
(laughs)
One guy at the store asked for my ID at another store
and he actually laughed, too, when I gave it to him,
'cause he anyway, he saw it's not my real ID.
Oh and he didn't even ask me for
my real ID after he laughed at it, right?
So it's like a formality.
Anyway it is what it is.
Hi I'm seven.
We had a good laugh.
My kids actually think I'm like that guy Phil
from that TV show Modern Family.
I don't think that's a compliment. Okay.
So if anybody has any questions
about how to protect your identity,
if we don't cover it in this course
or if anybody has suggestions that
we could all learn from each other
please leave it within the course here, okay?
Okay, great.
Now, when you get...
Whenever you rent a car you wanna
call your credit card company first
and make sure that they're gonna pay themselves
for the insurance on your card, right?
There's some nice perks you can get
from using certain credit cards.
And just know what the benefits are for your credit card.
All right, a lot of people think that it's just
American Express, whatever, that has-
Or these stupid expensive cards
that have a lot of benefits,
but a lot of them do, a ton of them do.
It's not just points for airplanes, okay?
And just as a quick side note,
if you buy something in a small family-owned store
use Visa or MasterCard and not
American Express if you have it,
because what happens is the family that owns the store
will pay much lower fees on Visa and MasterCard.
It's just a nice thing to do.
And this is why a lot of small
businesses don't accept Amex, okay?
Other obvious security measures for
your credit cards is to have a
secret password that nobody guesses, right?
And my MasterCard didn't work recently,
and I called MasterCard and they asked me
for my wife's mother's maiden name,
which Christine gave them and which is
the password for our credit cards, right?
And her mom's maiden name is Triantafyllides
which is Greek for "thirty flowers," right?
And the MasterCard rep asked me to spell it and I said,
"Are you kidding me?"
I couldn't spell it right.
So, anyway...
I guess I should change that now
I told the whole world this, right?
(laughs)
Okay, so with all credit cards
pay at least the minimum amount monthly required
or your credit rating will really get hurt.
Also, please read the fine print
when getting credit cards.
Just be careful with teaser rates like 1.9% APR.
It's called introduction APR.
And APR stands for Annual Percentage Rate.
And that 1.9% is often a teaser
and in six or 12 months,
(snaps)
They raise to 20%, right?
So read the fine print, okay?
And as much as I think that credit cards
can cause a lot of damage,
try to get one though if you don't already have one.
Because it helps to establish your credit rating.
So you can get a mortgage to buy
a house later in life or, god forbid,
if you need a big loan later in life
for emergency reasons, you can get them, okay?
And if you're a student,
these credit card companies make it easy for you to get,
so try and get a credit card in university
or in college or whatever if you're in school, okay?
Because they know once you sign up
with one credit card you're gonna be
probably brand-loyal for life, okay?
The same thing with computers.
You know, when we get student discounts
at the Apple store, right?
Apple is, they're smart.
They know longer-term, if they get you as a student,
you'll probably stay with them for life if you can.
And by the way, if you ever go to the Apple store,
always ask for student discounts,
okay, if you're a student, okay?
Tell them you're a Udemy Student.
Just kidding.
Sort of. No.
But if you are a student just always ask
for student discounts everywhere you go, okay?
And so, when I was an undergrad
I went to a school in Canada, Montreal
called McGill where I learned
how to party too much, actually.
But it was fun.
I got three credit cards.
Okay, I got a Visa, MasterCard and Amex.
When I was a student, right?
And my credit rating is awful in Canada, right?
It was basically ruined.
And this is probably good for me to tell you this.
I paid them all back late.
I remember one year I think I paid
one back like eight months late
and I didn't even make a minimum payment
And my credit rating was just terrible, right?
And so, when I moved to the United States
I paid my credit cards here on time.
I had to start from scratch, right?
But just please learn from my mistakes, okay?
Again, if I still lived in Canada
I might not be able to get a mortgage, whatever.
And my wife, Christine, thank goodness
she's so good at paying bills on time.
Much better than I am.